# Defining device messaging

When creating a W3bstream project, it's important to define the messaging protocol between the devices that send the data, and your W3bstream project. Currently, there are two ways to send data messages to a W3bstream project: over HTTP or MQTT. During the development phase of your project, you can also simulate data messages from the "Log" section in W3bstream Studio.

Here's an overview of how it works.

## Anatomy of a W3bstream Message

Any message sent to a W3bstream project has two parts: a header and a payload. The header is specific to the W3bstream protocol and contains information about the event being sent. The payload contains the actual data generated by the device.

Here's an example of what a W3bstream message might look like:

```json
{
   "header": {
     "event_type": "DATA",
     "event_id": "000",
     "pub_id": "device123",
     "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cC...k2Qx-3sOZY",
     "created_at": 1683744240
   },
   "payload": "Your device data here"
 }
```

## Using the W3bstream Client SDKs

To simplify the process of sending data to your W3bstream project, we recommend using a W3bstream Client SDK for the specific device you are using. This way, you won't have to worry about the details of the W3bstream protocol and can simply provide relevant data such as the target project name, event type, and payload.

If you're not sure which W3bstream Client SDK to use for your device, check out our documentation for more information:

{% content-ref url="../sending-data-to-w3bstream/introduction.md" %}
[introduction.md](../sending-data-to-w3bstream/introduction.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

## Example message

So assuming that our device is a weather station, and that it contributes some climate data periodically, the payload may look like the following:

```javascript
`"{ 
     "temperature": 16.5, 
     "humidity": 45.1, 
     "pressure": 1012, 
     "timestamp": 1683744240 
}"`  
```
